want to learn how to generate a steady
stream of quality B2B leads for your
business then stay tuned
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email or I share actual website
and B2B marketing tips useful goodies
podcasts resources and more each and
every week to kick off your week with a
bang give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email so today's
episode is taken from a recent interview
where Sora Cora interviewed me for the
ultimate Global podcast I share all
things B2B marketing best practices how
to generate quality leads with your
website and how to make best use of SEO
let's dive in welcome to another
exciting episode of ultimate Global
podcast
um and in this podcast we are
specifically going to talk about about
website and SEO and I think that this is
a very critical element from a marketing
point of view how many leads you are
generating on a weekly basis on a
monthly basis on a quarterly basis and
that is kind of translating into sales
at the end of the day so marketing and
sales as I always consider that they go
hand in hand more the number of leads
more the chances for you to convert
those leads into paying customers
but of course it's also important that
you don't only generate leads but you
generate genuine leads you generate warm
leads you don't generate leads for the
sake of generating leads so I guess one
of the best people can be SAM running uh
he's from the UK and he's the co-owner
of web Choice he guides businesses on
how to generate leads so I'll pass it on
to you some
um and let you introduce yourself and a
bit about your business
yeah sure thanks thanks for having me on
to wrap so yeah Sam Dunning I'm one of
the owners at
webchoiceuk.com essentially we build
websites and SEO strategies that
generate a steady flow of qualified
sales leads for B2B companies mostly
um apart from that I also run a podcast
too called business growth show it's a
B2B marketing podcast and every week we
share actionable website and marketing
tips and we also interview B2B marketing
leaders to share kind of tips you can
put into play for your business right
away
that's that's us
sounds really exciting Sam um use him to
be doing multiple things uh you're
running your own business you're also
running a podcast so that's pretty
exciting stuff happening at your end
isn't it always things to do man yeah
enjoy it I enjoy it the podcast means
like I can mess about and learn from
people that are smarter than me and also
put out content for for our YouTube for
uh for our podcast channel for for
LinkedIn where I love to to waste time
and then otherwise mess around with with
web Choice helping like I say businesses
with their websites I really enjoy doing
kind of SEO strategies ultimately
helping fuel their sales team with with
Quality Sales pipeline that's that's
where I get get my kicks from
yeah of course um and I think uh just
for the reference of the speak listeners
as well and for your reference as well
that this is you're the 52nd speaker uh
in this uh podcast we started off uh
this podcast and here back
um and I feel definitely feel that uh
podcasting is getting very popular
amongst companies to generate leads
another source of generating leads
because you're kind of building your
brand in the market and when any of your
potential leads look at that they they
see you and they consider you as an
expert in that particular industry so I
will start off with that uh question
only before moving on to any
technicalities is that what's the one
Mantra that you provide to your
customers as to how they can generate
warm leads
yep how they can generate leads so
well we we normally say the website's
the foundation
of the of the process so it it depends
really are we are we talking about B2B
companies in general how they can drive
warm leads
yeah absolutely if you want to touch
upon B2B b2c both of them give a
comparison up to you
yeah yeah yeah so I mean it's it's quite
an open question right so I'll give a
high level answer and then you can dive
into it as deep as you wish but let's
say you're a B2B company
and you want to drive warm leads for
your business then typically the main
thing you want to do is one of the the
starting points is a bit of research so
you actually want to know
who am I targeting who are my focus
clients who is this ideal client I want
to be selling to and where do they hang
out like if they're B2B then they're
probably using channels like LinkedIn to
consume content scroll the feed and if
they are actively searching for your
product or service or a specific upgrade
to their business whether that's they're
looking for some CRM software accounting
software whatever the heck they need
they might be going to Google search and
using that either clicking an organic
listing or a paid listing there they
might be going to review or comparison
sites so they might be going to things
like G2 OR tech radar or those kind of
review sites where they can get more
insights into what you offer they might
be looking at or consuming podcasts or
checking out YouTube to learn more about
your Niche or your service or your
operation or kind of getting their own
ideas and educating themselves
so there's a bunch of different channels
and there's there's many more that could
be on slack groups or communities
so one of the main things you firstly
want to do is when it comes to
generating inbound
you want to actually know where your
target prospects are hanging out rather
than doing random marketing on channels
and hoping for the best because that's
just going to waste either your time of
your team or it's going to waste your
money if you're spending that on
marketing or advertising activities and
and then you want to basically invest in
one or two of those channels to start
off with so ultimately if you're a B2B
business the what makes sense first and
foremost is to go to what we call High
intent channels so what I mean by that
is where people go when they need your
product or service right here right now
typically one of the best places for
this is Google search
so whether that is the paid search or
the sponsored listings with Google
Adwords which typically show up at the
top of your search results or sometimes
at the bottom
so for example let's say you offered
accountancy software and maybe it was a
finance company so if someone searches
Financial accountancy software your ad
is going to show or likewise you might
want to consider SEO which is the
organic non-paid listings which is more
of a longer term strategy that we can
dive into some tips and tricks on how
you can do SEO for your business in a
bit
um so yeah thinking of those because the
reason they're high intent is basically
if someone's site searches I don't know
Finance CRM for my company or something
like that chances are they need it so if
they go to your website they're going to
probably click through
learn a bit more about what you do maybe
check out some results you've got for
clients maybe check out your pricing
page and if that ticks all the boxes
they're going to request to speak to
sales so they can request a demo or
request a consult or whatever your call
to action is so usually you want to
start if you're going to Market as a B2B
company you want to drive kind of high
intent leads you want to look at these
high intent channels like Google search
or Google paid search
um organic SEO is going to take longer
and we can like I say dive into that
strategy or paid search another high
intent channel is review sites so these
these review sites tend to rank really
well on Google search as well so things
like G2 captera trash radius depending
on if you're us or UK those review sites
rank really well on Google you can pay
to get a sponsored listing on those and
you can start driving high quality
traffic and high intent leads and get
demo requests to your site
then you probably if you're B2B like we
said some free options some like
non-paid options are creating content on
LinkedIn so building up your Authority
building up your reputation by sharing
tips stories insights building up your
audience on LinkedIn and that way you
can drive kind of traffic to your site
or direct in the DMS to you
um or starting kind of your own podcast
like we're doing now building up that
industry expertise reputation
um but the main thing of all of this is
that your website is the foundation so a
lot of these people these prospects are
going to be checking out your website
and typically B2B buyers when they head
to a site they want to really quickly
see kind of what you do how it's going
to help them
they probably want to check out some
results or case studies that you've got
for past customers and clients and and
then they're probably going to check out
your pricing make sure they can actually
afford what you do and on the basis that
they're happy and comfortable with all
of that they're probably then going to
request a demo or consult or whatever
that next step is in your sales process
so those are some high level overviews
but happy to dive deeper in any of those
well yeah that's really exciting to know
a lot of things that you have already
told including podcasts looking at the
right prospects looking at those key
metrics that really will Define how are
you getting those leads and then
qualifying them to potential sales
opportunities
but while we are targeting those uh
leads what are some of the key metrics
that the company should really focus on
in terms of your website or in terms of
the leads or in terms of
just a little bit in terms of the leads
so in terms of the leads what should
they be looking at what kind of leads
they are targeting so would you like to
dig a bit deeper into that uh you told
about it a bit
um briefly uh would you like to dig a
bit deeper into that yeah so I guess
I'll I'll give you a few options I mean
in terms of lead gen so BSB companies I
mean you have different types of leads
right so you've got mqls marketing
qualified leads which might be someone
that headed to your website or
downloaded like an ebook or a guide or a
white paper
um so that's typically those kind of
mqls marketing qualified leads those
need some nurturing so they might need
to be shown content over a period of
time whether that's like an email
nurture with a drip feed of email
content and educational stuff over weeks
or months until that Prospect is
eventually ready to speak to your sales
team
um
or you've got sqls so sales qualified
leads these kind of leads are typically
people that actually go and raise their
hand and say I'm ready to speak to sales
right here right now so they'll fill out
your requested demo time or they'll book
time on your sales rep calendar or
they'll book a consult they'll fill out
a form for that so different types of
leads really
um I mean depending on the size of your
organization and how many sales reps
that you need you might take an approach
where you do both and you generate a ton
of mqls you might run things like
LinkedIn ads where people do form fills
you might like I say have gated ebooks
you might run webinars where you get
people to sign up with their email and
then you might nurture these people over
time with content with email feeds with
ads on LinkedIn nurturing them
or likewise you've got the high intent
leads which typically if you're running
things like I talked about earlier like
Google organic search Google paid search
for Search terms where people's actually
are actually needing your product right
here right now then on the basis your
website does a good job
and you can point them to kind of book
that demo or book that console which is
going to be a sales qualified lead as
opposed to an mql
that's true
um I think some of the times a lot of
the companies make mistakes as well in
terms of
what kind of keywords they should be
using or they try out a lot of keywords
quite frequently they don't stick with
that so I guess it will be really
important for us to discuss in this
podcast the importance of keywords
um and the importance of using the right
keywords for different companies and
probably sticking to that and testing
that out for some time isn't it
yeah so from you mean from an organic
SEO perspective to ranking on Google
certain Search terms yeah yeah exactly
so I mean usually if you're starting an
SEO campaign and you want your website
to rank on Google organic search
you can you can do keyword research for
paid search as well Google ads so
first and foremost you need to to see
how competitive the market is
so for example if you're in a massively
competitive space
um so for example if you're selling CRM
software which I often talk about then
the leaders in the market like
Salesforce HubSpot Etc they're just
going to dominate so if you're looking
at general terms like CRM CRM company
CRM software unless you've got hundreds
and thousands to pump into a marketing
span you're not even going to make a
dent you're just going to be a drop in
the ocean and you're probably never ever
going to rank against these beasts in
the industry so you probably want to
Niche down initially so when you're
doing your research into Search terms
keywords that you want to rank for you
want to go Niche you want to do what's
called longer tell keywords which
typically have three words or more
um so instead of just targeting things
like CRM software you might want to go
very specific to what you're offering so
if you offered I don't know CRM for
accountancy companies or CRM for sales
teams then you could hone in on that
like CRM for sales companies or sales
companies CRM provider or best CRM for
sales teams those kind of things
because that way you're not going
against the monsters you're niching down
the search results and you're you're
providing more intent of a sales team
actually needs a dedicated surround for
themselves they're more likely to find
what you need so those are what's called
high intent keywords those are probably
the ones you want to look at initially
um so chances are if someone types in
one of those
then they're probably going to request a
demo if your website builds trust with
them and converts them effectively and
then you've got things like the middle
of the funnel where people are maybe
comparing you to maybe a couple of other
providers so let's say you know one of
your competitors
so for example if you were looking at
HubSpot you might say HubSpot versus
Salesforce
um or you might say software one versus
software two we basically
giving people the options that want to
compare and then you've got kind of real
top of the funnel searches where people
still in the educational set
um side of their Journey so when they
might be searching things like how to
find the best CRM for a sales team or
what to consider when investing in CRM
or what kind of companies need CRM or do
sales teams need CRM so these kind of
things where you can actually position
your website as more of an authority
give people useful tips because these
keywords are probably going to link
through to blog articles then they can
read them out they might get the tips
they need then they might sign up for
your newsletter or they might sign up
for a webinar so it's people that are
really early on in your journey that
might consume some of your content sign
up for a guide or something like that
and then over time you can kind of
nurture them so those are like the three
tiers of kind of top of funnel searches
middle funnel searches and bottom of
funnel searches where people are likely
ready to buy those are some things you
probably want to consider when you're
doing your research into keywords and
then you can start looking at what's
called on-site SEO where you build out
the content of your website you build up
the main page ages and you build up the
service pages and your blog articles and
your resources and all that good stuff
and also something called technical SEO
which we can jump into if you wish
oh yeah absolutely
um I think I was just thinking about
this fact that the in these times the
companies are making not only the
mistakes in the keywords but it also
depends on the content that you're
putting out if the content is not
relevant enough I might go there but it
might not lead to any conversion to a
sale or it might not bring any Prospect
to the sales team because your content
wasn't catchy your content wasn't as
glamorous to be converted into a sale so
I guess there's a lot to do with a mix
of issues here in terms of the SEO and
the content that you produce and I think
that's where I really feel that the
companies should definitely have a
person who is specifically working
towards the SEO part and figuring out
what they can be done what can be done
from the SEO point of view in terms of
organic leads or or you know what what
can be possible mistakes or they can
Outsource to people like Sam Dunning who
are doing a wonderful job isn't it some
yeah I mean you've raised a good point
there
um in terms of pages so let's let's say
you've done your keyword research you've
nailed down the Search terms you want
your site to rank for
you've maybe done your own page SEO so
you've built out
typically if you're doing that you want
to build out information Pages for each
of the main services or products you
offer and maybe the locations too and
essentially think of your website as the
go-to resource for your company or for
your industry rather so if people are
thinking your sector if they think of
your website you position your website
as a educational tool as well as a
conversion tool it's going to help you a
lot from that SEO and content mindset
but going back to your point there
you're exactly right so there's no point
driving people to a page if it's not
gonna give them the information they
need quickly if it's not going to answer
their questions if it's not going to
handle their objections if it's not
going to build trust with them and then
convert them so Point them to book a
call or whatever that action you want
them to take with your sales team is so
some ideas to do this are actually
understand what your customers what your
audience care about so thinking of
things like what are the common
questions we get on sales calls around
this topic
what are the common objections and
frustrations we get on sales calls
around this topic if you don't know
yourself then you need to listen to your
sales team you can get them around you
can have a coffee you can have a beer
with them you can say look what are the
top questions that the people ask are on
this on this product or on this service
that we're building out content for
um we can listen to Source sales calls
yourself or if you're the founder of
your business and you you're a one or
two man band and you'll you'll know this
Intel already
um so yeah making sure because Google
recently rolled out an update called
helpful content and essentially one of
the cruxes of this is giving people
information they need fast making sure
it's relevant making sure it's helpful
and not like clickbaity just drawing
people in there not really giving them
what they're searching for so yeah
making sure when someone lands on this
service page or this information page
you're saying like this is what we do
this is how we can help this is how we
fix your problem these are some of the
key benefits maybe you've got an FAQ
section maybe you've got a useful video
an infographic a relevant podcast and
then maybe you've got some social proof
so you've got some testimonials or some
results or some client videos where
you've really helped them and then
you've got a clerical to action like
request a demo or request a concert or
whatever that next step is you want to
take so those are just some key pointers
that just help help with conversion help
with trust building on on pages on your
site
oh yeah absolutely
um one of the other questions that I
really want to ask you about Sam is some
of the common mistakes that companies
can do I think we have already pointed
out a couple of them including uh not
having the right content not using the
right keywords anything else that
specifically comes to your mind when you
talk to your customers and you see that
this is one of the biggest mistakes that
they are making loads more more than we
got time for but one of the biggest less
that we can do a couple I mean on a
website point of view one of the worst
things you can do with your website
especially if you're a B2B company and
you've got a sales team that this
website needs to fuel a steady flow of
qualified sales leads too is designing
the website for what you think looks
good so design the website to stroke
either your own ego or your marketing
marketing team so you go or you see
sweet ego because that means the site's
only going to appeal to you and
ultimately you're not trying to convert
yourself you're trying to convert your
target clients so customer research
customer interviews for your website is
really important because
it can fuel Your Design it's actually
how your website looks and feels it can
fuel the content that goes into the main
pages and it can also fuel the structure
of these Pages
um
as a quick example we a couple months
ago on on the web Choice site we were
redesigning our pricing page because we
were getting a lot of inquiries That
Couldn't actually afford our stuff so we
thought right let's revamp our pricing
page for example on the SEO Pages we
want to quickly give an idea of the
starting rates and so people can see
kind of where we start at and then we
wanted to reinforce that with things
like the main benefits you get some
frequently asked questions and then some
results we've got for clients so I asked
in my case I asked a few Chief marketing
officers four or five guys can you spare
a few minutes to flip through this page
let me know your feedback what looks
good what needs Improvement what's
missing and straight away some of them
said Sam the pricing's not high enough
up we had to scroll halfway down the
page before we could actually see how
much it costs that's frustrating and
they gave you some other useful feedback
and what you want to do is on these
customer interviews use or Pro ideal
Prospect interviews you want to
look for patterns in what they say so if
something's being raised a lot of times
then you think well this is an issue we
need to actually address that so for
example some actionable tips here is if
you've already got a website and you're
looking to redesign it to attract build
trust with and convert idle clients then
you even want to interview like I don't
know five to seven of your best current
clients or five to seven or serve your
best Target prospects and ask them
things like what's working well on our
site what's not what needs Improvement
on certain pages what do you feel is
missing on current Pages was really
useful and any other comments so you can
really understand look what's working
well what needs Improvement and they
might say look your pricing page doesn't
actually give pricing I actually have to
fill out a form just to speak to cells
which is frustrating or maybe they want
to see a process or maybe they feel
you're not you don't have enough case
study so this is really valuable insight
and like I say you want to look for
common Trends and patterns and the
feedback because that can really help
fuel your website and make sure that
it's actually geared up to attract the
people that you want to invert rather
than just guessing on what looks good or
designing it for your own taste and
because that's pointless
yeah absolutely thank you so much for
pointing out that as a mistake because
even I've heard those kind of things
happening in customer research in fact
plays a very vital role for any
marketing team and I think that's where
the sales team can also come into play
and we always see that marketing and
sales go hand in hand so marketing team
can in fact get a lot of perspectives
from the sales team because the sales is
kind of doing it every day they are in
front of the customers they know what's
working well when they're selling the
product was not working and sometimes
the customers might also tell you that
during your demonstrations where are
they coming from what's wrong with the
website so I guess definitely that's
plays a major role but I think thank you
so much Sam for participating in today's
podcast and there you have it I hope you
found this episode useful as always if
you're on the audio podcast a quick
rating for review is appreciated on
YouTube a quick subscribe goes a really
long way and with that I'll catch you on
the next one cheers